The PMs oftentimes end up accumulating a really big backlog with
more requested features in customers
than their development team could actually physically work on.
That's where they come into shine,
to make a determination on what the development team should focus their time on,
given the following criteria.
What is the estimated impact that this feature will have on your users?
Is development of this feature within the skill set of
the current engineering team from a technical and resourcing perspective?
Is this foundational platform work that will either reduce
tack debt to increase the development velocity of the engineering team,
or provide incremental building blocks,
they'll paved the way for what we want to build in the future?
Does this is feature align with the mission and vision of the company in your team?
Does it align with the OKRs and KPIs we have established for the current time period?
Probably, development teams solve problems,
but at the end of the day, we still need cash to continue solving problems.
So does it generate revenue,
either directly or indirectly, and by how much?
Is the feature profitable?
Or eventually profitable through
eventual infrastructure scaling and or the volume of unit economics?
There's oftentimes so much conflicting data and signal on what to build.
In everyone in the company has a unique,
but oftentimes, limited perspective of the situation at hand.
PMs are in a unique position,
being the central thread to a multitude of viewpoints.
They need to convince stake holders from all departments on
what we should all be building towards and the reasons why.
A compelling presentation is one of the most powerful ways
to secure resources to create and build your product,
in regards to engineers and designers,
to provide contacts so that
stakeholders are aligned when they're collaborating with each other.
Finally, to evangelize or manifest the user's story,
to build empathy across the company on the issues,
or pain that they are experiencing.
To get you up to speed, in this lesson,
we'll be going over the key points to hit in
a product proposal presentation and weaving
data visualizations and analysis seamlessly into your presentations.